<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>
				<b>DEDICATION</b>
			</h2>
			<p><br/>
				To <abbr epub:type="given-name">C. F G.</abbr> Masterman, <abbr epub:type="initialism">M. P.</abbr><br/>
			 My Dear Charles,<br/>
			 I originally called this book “What is Wrong,” and it would<br/>
			 have satisfied your sardonic temper to note the number of social<br/>
			 misunderstandings that arose from the use of the title. Many a mild lady<br/>
			 visitor opened her eyes when I remarked casually, “I have been doing<br/>
			 ‘What is Wrong’ all this morning.” And one minister of religion moved<br/>
			 quite sharply in his chair when I told him (as he understood it) that I<br/>
			 had to run upstairs and do what was wrong, but should be down again in<br/>
			 a minute. Exactly of what occult vice they silently accused me I cannot<br/>
			 conjecture, but I know of what I accuse myself; and that is, of having<br/>
			 written a very shapeless and inadequate book, and one quite unworthy<br/>
			 to be dedicated to you. As far as literature goes, this book is what is<br/>
			 wrong and no mistake.<br/>
			<br/>
			 It may seem a refinement of insolence to present so wild a composition<br/>
			 to one who has recorded two or three of the really impressive visions of<br/>
			the moving millions of England. You are the only man alive who can<br/>
			make the map of England crawl with life; a most creepy and enviable<br/>
			 accomplishment. Why then should I trouble you with a book which, even<br/>
			 if it achieves its object (which is monstrously unlikely) can only be a<br/>
			 thundering gallop of theory?<br/>
			<br/>
			 Well, I do it partly because I think you politicians are none the worse<br/>
			 for a few inconvenient ideals; but more because you will recognise the<br/>
			many arguments we have had, those arguments which the most wonderful<br/>
			 ladies in the world can never endure for very long. And, perhaps, you<br/>
			 will agree with me that the thread of comradeship and conversation must<br/>
			 be protected because it is so frivolous. It must be held sacred, it<br/>
			 must not be snapped, because it is not worth tying together again. It<br/>
			 is exactly because argument is idle that men (I mean males) must take it<br/>
			 seriously; for when (we feel), until the crack of doom, shall we have so<br/>
			 delightful a difference again? But most of all I offer it to you because<br/>
			 there exists not only comradeship, but a very different thing, called<br/>
			 friendship; an agreement under all the arguments and a thread which,<br/>
			 please God, will never break.<br/>
			<br/>
			 Yours always,<br/>
			<br/>
				<abbr epub:type="given-name">G. K.</abbr> Chesterton.<br/></p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
